.. _asc001:

====================================================================================================
Strategy Tournament
====================================================================================================

:ASC: 1
:Status: Proposed
:Created: 2018-11-28
:Updated: 2018-11-28
:Version: 0.0
:Authors:
         - Darkar

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Abstract
====================================================================================================
This document describes the set of rules and techniques to be used in creating and running an AWDE
Strategy Tournament.

.. contents:: Table of Contents

Introductions
====================================================================================================
*"In preparing for battle I have always found that plans are useless, but planning is
indispensable."*

*-Dwight D. Eisenhower*

There has been of late some interest in playing strategy games as a group within AWDE. However, since
this is AWDE, it simply will not do to play strategy games. At least one level of recursion is
required.

This document proposes a model for a tournament of strategy games where the winner or winners of each
game get points and at the end of the tournament whoever has the most points wins (a tie-breaking
system may be implemented, but ties are unlikely). Additionally, games will include a prediction
market which offer additional points for correct predictions.


Motivation
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
We want to play strategy games and test out long-term strategies and other techniques, but with the
amount of experimentation likely, especially considering the prediction market aspect, it is crucial
to ensure the rules of the tournaments are as clear as possible.

Epistemic Status
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I, Darkar, have spent quite a lot of time thinking about this tournament; at least three weeks of
consideration. I've consulted with others in AWDE to look for flaws (of which Greg found several)
and specifically considered adversarial positions. However, this system has yet to be tested and no
amount of thinking or preparation will be as informative as a single game. I expect significant
updates after the first tournament is run and this will probably coincide with the 1.0 version.

Definitions
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Definition imports
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
    - `RFC 2119 <https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt>`_

Games
====================================================================================================
One of the core features of a tournament is its pool of games: before a tournament commences, this
pool must be created. For a game to be considered for the pool it

  - Must be accessible and usable for all players; if the game costs money to play, each player must
    own a copy. If the technical requirements are strenuous, each player's computer must be able to
    run it in a multiplayer setting without difficulty (as judged by the players themselves).

  - Must not have an expected duration longer than half the tournament's planned length.

  - Should have either an in-game or explicitly defined house-ruled victory condition that allows for
    more than one winner. Multipolar victories are an important part of the Strategy Games, so this
    is a strong 'should'.

  - Should have been tested explicitly in a 'dry-run' setting outside of the tournament's competitive
    pressure to prevent unexpected problems and ensure all players are familiar with the mechanics.

  - May be a pure or partial strategy game. The game does not even need to be explicitly a strategy
    game if they players decide they want to include something else in their pool.

Scoring
====================================================================================================
Points are scored by winning games; for each week of the tournament there are 

At the end of the tournament, the player with the most points wins. Ties are unlikely but are
settled TODO somehow? We need to design a tiebreaker...
